## Practice Quiz: Understanding Slowness
* **Total points: 5**
* **Score: 100%**

<br>

### Question 1

Which of the following will an application spend the longest time retrieving data from?

* CPU L2 cache
* RAM
* Disk
* **The network**

> An application will take the longest time trying to retrieve data from the network.

<br>

### Question 2

Which tool can you use to verify reports of 'slowness' for web pages served by a web server you manage?

* The top tool
* **The ab tool**
* The nice tool
* The pidof tool

> The ab tool is an Apache Benchmark tool used to figure out how slow a web server is based on average timing of requests.

<br>

### Question 3

If our computer running Microsoft Windows is running slow, what performance monitoring tools can we use to analyze our system resource usage to identify the bottleneck? (Check all that apply)

* **Performance Monitor**
* **Resource Monitor**
* Activity Monitor
* top

> Performance Monitor is a system monitoring program that provides basic CPU and memory resource measurements in Windows.

> Resource Monitor is an advanced resource monitoring utility that provides data on hardware and software resources in real time.

<br>

### Question 4

Which of the following programs is likely to run faster and more efficiently, with the least slowdown?

* A program with a cache stored on a hard drive
* **A program small enough to fit in RAM**
* A program that reads files from an optical disc
* A program that retrieves most of its data from the Internet

> Since RAM access is faster than accessing a disk or network, a program that can fit in RAM will run faster.

<br>

### Question 5

What might cause a single application to slow down an entire system? (Check all that apply)

* **A memory leak**
* The application relies on a slow network connection
* **Handling files that have grown too large**
* Hardware faults

> Memory leaks happen when an application doesn't release memory when it is supposed to.

> If files generated by the application have grown overly large, slowdown will occur if the application needs to store a copy of the file in RAM in order to use it.